Now that we know how the point of purchase and expenditure is determined,
we can plan the assortment of products,
we can move on to planning the production of several types of products,
and we can also introduce a new concept.
This concept is called the marginal profit.
So, the use of the marginal profit to determine the point of purchase and expenditure.
What is a marginal profit?
It is denoted by the letter CM.
What does CM mean? Contribution Margin.
So, the marginal profit is the amount left after subtracting all variable costs from the sales volume.
S is sales.
VC is variable costs.
CM is contribution margin.
This is the marginal profit.
The marginal profit of the product line is the net contribution of the coverage of the constant costs and the profit.
Accordingly, the profit is what remains after the payment of the constant costs and subtraction from the marginal profit.
There are different concepts of the profit.
Let's look at this idea in more detail.
What does the net contribution of the coverage of the constant costs and the profit mean?
According to this idea, we consider the constant costs,
what we called F and C, as an investment.
We invest the constant costs in the beginning of the business, in the beginning of the production.
After that, we expect that the investments will be paid off.
How can they be paid off?
They can be paid off by the production and sales of the product.
But each unit of the product requires us to spend additional costs on each unit,
which we will call variable costs or VC.
Moreover, we will sell each unit at a certain price.
Thus, the difference between the price of the sale and the variable costs
will be the small amount, which is called the marginal profit.
The word marginal means the limit.
We take one unit, and one unit gives us a certain contribution to the coverage of the constant costs.
The more we produce, the more we see the coverage of the constant costs.
We covered the constant costs.
What's left?
Everything we get after covering the constant costs is our profit.
We see that the profit we get is different from the marginal profit.
The marginal profit is one single unit,
which is the profit from the variable costs we get.
But this profit is obtained before we include the analysis of the constant costs.
The profit is what is left after paying the constant costs,
covering, crossing the point of payback,
and subtracting from the marginal profit,
which is made by the production and sales of each new unit of the product.
The profit is obtained by the marginal profit,
the total marginal profit, if we count it for the entire produced product,
and from this total marginal profit we subtract the fixed costs,
that is, the constant costs.
The point of profitability can be expressed as the point where the marginal profit minus the total constant costs is zero.
Or the marginal profit equals the constant costs.
The point of profitability in the international definition is denoted by the Latin letters B and I,
which means in English it sounds like a break-even point.
That is, the marginal profit per unit, multiplied by the point of profitability in units,
that is, the so-called break-even contribution margin,
multiplied by the break-even,
all this minus the constant costs is zero.
From here we can find out what the point of profitability is.
So, these will be the constant costs divided by the marginal profit per unit.
So, we recall the concept we presented a few minutes ago.
We first make investments, we consider the opening of a new business,
the production of new products as an investment,
that is, these are constant costs.
But the production of each new unit of the product requires variable costs
and also requires the establishment of a certain sales price.
The sales price minus the variable costs and there is a marginal profit,
that is, the marginal profit from the production of each new unit.
The marginal profit per unit.
And the point of profitability per unit equals the constant costs
divided by the marginal profit per unit.
Now we will look at an example where we consider a different number of units produced and sold.
We operate with the same symbols that we studied.
We will repeat them again.
S is sales, this is income from sales.
In this case, it is 900 rubles per unit.
If we recall, we produce cast-iron stands.
Vc is the variable costs.
They are subtracted and the variable costs are equal to 500 rubles per unit.
Cm is the marginal profit.
It is equal to 400 rubles per unit.
Cm is the result of subtraction of the variable costs from the income from sales.
Next, we subtract the constant costs, that is, Fc.
And after that, we can get the amount of profit or loss.
The profit is denoted by the letter P, which means profit.
Next, we consider three different options.
In one option, we have 250 units produced and sold.
In the other option, we have 500 units.
In the third option, we have 750 units.
If we recall, 500 is equal to the value of the point of purchase.
That is, the income from sales will be 900 times 500.
900 times 250 equals 225,000.
Minus the variable costs, 500 rubles per unit.
And at the same time, we have 250 units.
500 times 250 equals 125,000 rubles.
The marginal profit will be equal to 225,000 rubles minus 125,000 rubles.
This is equal to 100,000 rubles, that is, 400 rubles per unit.
Next, we subtract the constant costs,
which will not depend on how many units we produced and sold.
And we see that when we produce 250 units,
we get 100,000 minus 200,000 equals minus 100,000.
100,000 in brackets means that this value is negative.
This is a loss.
We are still bearing a loss.
Next, we increase the number of units produced and sold.
Now we have 500 units.
If we remember, this was the point of purchase.
Again, we repeat the calculation.
900 times 500 equals 450,000.
The variable costs, 500 times 500 equals 250,000.
The marginal profit is equal to 450,000 minus 250,000 equals 200,000.
Minus the constant costs, which do not depend on the number of units produced.
So, what do we get?
We get zero.
Zero means that the costs are covered, but the profit is not received.
That is, everything we have produced,
we have covered the costs,
covered the initial investments
that we made in order to start our business.
We go further.
Now we have 750 units produced and sold.
The income from the sale is equal to 900 rubles per unit,
multiplied by 750 units equals 675,000 rubles.
Minus the variable costs, 500 rubles per unit of variable costs,
multiplied by 750 units equals 375,000.
Hence, we get the marginal profit.
In units, this is 400 rubles per unit.
Thus, we either multiply 400 by 750,
or subtract 675 minus 375.
In both cases, we get 300,000 rubles of marginal profit.
Minus the constant costs.
That is, 300,000 minus 200,000 equals 100,000 rubles.
100,000 rubles of net profit that we get.
That is, we see the whole dynamics.
We see the loss area up to 500,000.
We see the point of occupancy, the point of non-profitability,
when we covered all the constant costs, but nothing more.
And we see the area in which we get the profit.
Everything we produce above 500 units,
we get the net profit.
Now we use this concept to calculate the point of non-profitability
in units of the metal product for the same society with limited responsibility.
Thus, the point of non-profitability, BE,
in units, is equal to FC, that is, constant costs,
divided by CM, that is, contribution margin,
or marginal profit per unit.
200,000 divided by 900 minus 500
equals 200,000 divided by 400 equals 500 units.
Please note that we calculated the same number of units produced and sold
in order to cover all the constant costs,
but we did it in a slightly different way.
In previous examples, we divided the constant costs
by the difference between the volume of sales and the variable costs.
Now we operate directly with the value of the marginal profit.
That is, we divide the constant costs by the marginal profit per unit.
And we get 500 units, which is the point of occupancy.
Now we calculate the point of non-profitability in rubles by multiplying
the value of the point of occupancy in units, that is, BE,
in units, by the price of the sale, that is, SP,
selling price per unit.
BE, that is, the point of occupancy in rubles,
is equal to SP, that is, the price of the sale,
selling price, SP, multiplied by BE,
that is, the break-even point, or the point of occupancy in units.
This is equal to 900 rubles multiplied by 500 units
equals 450,000 rubles.
Now we calculate the point of non-profitability in rubles
by using the coefficient of marginal profit.
So we divide the constant costs by the coefficient of marginal profit,
or contribution margin rate.
R is the word rate.
So we divide 200,000 by 0.444 equals 45,045.
The contribution margin rate, from here we see,
is equal to the contribution margin, CM,
divided by SP, that is, the selling price.
The contribution margin, divided by the selling price,
is equal to 400 divided by 900.
400 rubles, the contribution margin,
is divided by the sale of one unit,
by the price of the sale of one unit,
that is, it is equal to 444 after the comma, or 4 ninths.
And if we divide the constant costs by this value,
we will get 45,045 rubles,
the point of occupancy in rubles.
Now we will move on to calculate the assortment of products
and use the aforementioned concepts,
that is, the contribution margin or the marginal profit,
in order to determine the distribution of the assortment of products.
That is, without the concept of contribution margin or marginal profit,
it would be very difficult for us to calculate the assortment of products
and determine the point of occupancy and costs for the assortment of products.
Let's first define what the assortment of products is.
This is the proportion of sales of units of each product
relative to the total sales of units of this organization.
We modify the previous task,
associated with the Metal Product Society.
Now it sells two types of plant stands.
This is a field stand for plants and a table stand for plants.
The company sells 500 stands,
300 of them are field stands, and 200 are table models.
So, let's define the assortment of products.
For each of the three sold field stands,
two table models are sold.
Thus, the assortment of products is 3 to 2,
or, out of 500 sold stands,
60%, that is, 300 divided by 500, are field models,
and 40%, 200 divided by 500, are table models.
We will do this work in several steps.
So, step 1.
Calculate the average marginal profit.
Multiply the marginal profit for each product
by its percentage share in the assortment of products.
This is the table that does this calculation.
What do we see here?
We see calculations for two types of stands,
a field stand and a table stand.
The columns are called as follows.
The retail price in rubles, SP,
the variable costs, VC,
the marginal profit in rubles, CM,
the percentage share and the average marginal profit, CM.
For a field stand, 900 is the retail price,
minus 500.
The variable costs are equal to the marginal profit of 400.
But we have established that since we have 3 to 2,
that is, we have 60% of the field stands
in the total volume of the assortments.
That is, we must multiply the marginal profit
by 60%, which is the percentage share.
by 60%.
We get 240 rubles,
which is the average marginal profit
that we got for the field stand.
Let's repeat the same calculations for the table stand.
Now we see that the retail price of the table stand is 400.
The variable costs are 200 per unit.
The marginal profit, the marginal contribution
will be equal to 400 minus 200.
This is 200.
Multiply by the percentage share.
We remember that we have 3 field stands
that correspond to 2 table stands.
We produce 3 field stands for 2 table stands.
Thus, we multiply 200 by 40%
and we get the average marginal profit
equal to 80.
Next, we add two quantities.
240 plus 80 equals 320.
Now let's move on to the next step.
Step 2.
Calculate the average point of non-profitability.
To do this, we need to divide the total
constant costs into the average marginal profit.
The average point of non-profitability
equals the total constant costs
divided into the average marginal profit.
That is, 320,000 divided by 320.
320,000 divided by 320 equals 1,000.
Step 3.
Calculate the point of non-profitability for each product.
To do this, we need to multiply the average point of non-profitability
by the percentage share for each product.
So, we produce 1,000 of them.
We multiply 1,000 by the percentage share
equal to 60% for the field stand
and we get 600.
Then we multiply 1,000 by the percentage share
for the table stand and we get 400.
Now let's check whether we calculated the percentage share correctly.
To check, we will determine the marginal profit for each product
and subtract the total constant costs.
The marginal profit is equal to
the field stand 600 times 400.
600 times 400 equals 240,000 rubles.
The field stand 400 times 200 equals 80,000 rubles.
The total marginal profit is equal to 320,000 rubles.
Minus the constant costs, we get the profit equal to zero.
Why?
Because our goal was to determine the amount
that we should produce and sell in order to reach the point of non-profitability.
This means that the amount produced above 600 field and 400 table stands
will be a net profit.
Now that we have determined the amount and the quantity of products we should produce,
we will think about how to set prices for these units.
The price is very important in order to sell the product.
We should remember the laws of economics,
that there is a ratio of prices and demand.
We know that the higher the price for a product,
the lower the demand under equal conditions.
And vice versa.
The lower the price, the higher the demand under equal conditions.
In this case, increasing the price will lead to a decrease in the amount of the product
while maintaining the level of non-profitability.
In this particular case,
when conducting this marketing study,
the price increase effect is set to 100 rubles for the company's operating profit.
Since the competitors sell the same product at a lower price,
the amount of the product will decrease by 15% if the price increases by 100 rubles.
So, we decided to increase the price by 100 rubles
and we see that the amount of the product will decrease by 15%.
Now we should consider what will happen to our equations if we change the price ratio.
We should determine how this decision will affect the operating profit.
We see the table in which we make this calculation.
So, for one product, we will have 1,000 income from sales.
For 510 products, we will have 510,000 income.
Minus the variable costs,
that is, 500 variable costs.
500 multiplied by 510 will be equal to 255,000 rubles.
Let's recall what 510,000 rubles is.
We had 600,000 rubles.
But as we have just decided,
if we decrease the price by 15%
since we increased the price by 100 rubles,
that is, the price has become 1,000 rubles per product from 900 rubles,
then we should have 600 minus 15%
and it will be 510,000 rubles.
So, the marginal profit will be 1,000 per product minus 500 variable costs.
500 rubles in variable costs.
What do we get? 500 rubles.
Multiply by 510.
It is 255,000 rubles.
Or we can subtract 255,000 rubles of variable costs from sales income.
That is, from 510,000 rubles.
Next.
The constant costs are 200,000 rubles.
They do not depend on whether we increased or decreased the price.
They also do not depend on how many products we produced.
That is, whether we had 600 products initially
or 510 products, as in this case, when we decrease the volume of production by 15%.
We will get the same 200,000 products.
255,000 rubles of marginal profit minus constant costs, 200,000 products.
We get an operating profit of 55,000 rubles.
Let's compare the operating profit before and now.
We see that the operating profit has increased.
Despite the fact that we started producing less, the profit has increased by 15,000.
The decrease in sales by 90 units, that is, 15% multiplied by 600,
reduces the variable costs by 45,000 rubles.
Now let's see how this alternative affects the operating profit.
Increasing the marginal profit is a consequence of increasing the sales price.
That is, we have 100 rubles of additional sales price,
multiplied by the smaller number of units sold,
that is, not 600, but 510,
more than 100 rubles, but 510 units, so 51,000.
Decreasing the marginal profit from decreasing the sales volume
is 400 rubles of marginal investment per unit,
multiplied by 90 units less than the sales price,
that is, minus 36,000.
Please note that when we conduct this analysis,
we must fix one factor and count the changes only according to another factor.
In the first case, we count only the change in the price, that is, 100 rubles,
and the number of units is fixed, 510.
In the second case, in the second component of this calculation,
we fix the marginal investment and see how much we have changed the number of units sold.
90 is 600 minus 510.
The calculation is based on the fact that we fix the first factor and count the second one.
Then we fix the second factor and count the first one.
Thus, we can calculate the marginal profit by adding the changes by two factors.
The first factor is the increase in the price,
and the second is the decrease in the sales volume.
In order to calculate the changes for each of them,
we must apply it to the second factor, which does not change.
Now let's see what happens if we, on the contrary, reduce the price per unit.
We will set the effect of reducing the price by 100 rubles on the company's operating profit
while maintaining the same level of profitability.
Since the competitors sell the same product at a higher price,
the sales volume will increase by 15%,
that is, we will win over the competitors if the price is reduced by 100 rubles.
Now we must think whether it is profitable for us or not.
How will this decision affect the operating profit?
So, per unit we have not 900 rubles, but only 800 rubles, 100 rubles less.
But we do not have 600 units sold, but 690,
that is, 552 thousand will be the income from sales.
The variable costs of 500 rubles per unit will be 345 thousand.
800 minus 500 will be the marginal profit,
that is, 300 rubles is the marginal profit per unit.
Then we multiply 300 rubles by 690 units, which gives us 207 thousand rubles.
Or we can subtract 345 thousand rubles from 552 thousand
and get the same 207 thousand rubles of marginal profit.
Next, the constant costs.
207 minus 200 thousand constant costs will be 7 thousand of operating profit.
This gives us a reduction of operating profit by 33 thousand rubles.
That is, increasing sales by 90 units increases the variable costs by 45 thousand units.
How does this work? How will the decision affect the operating profit?
The analysis of the changes.
The reduction of the marginal profit consists of a reduction of the sales price of 100 rubles per 690 units.
That is, we fix the number of units, 690, and the price is 100 units, 100 rubles.
100 rubles multiplied by 690 turns out to be 69 thousand.
The increase in the marginal profit from the increase in the sales volume.
That is, now we multiply 400 rubles of marginal investment by 90 more sold units and get 36 thousand.
But since we lose 69 thousand, the increase in the profit from the volume of sales does not cover the reduction of the sales price per unit.
Thus, we see a reduction of operating profit per unit and a reduction of operating profit per total amount.
The cost of the system
Now let's move on to the concept of standard costs and draw up the system of standard costs.
Here we will try to give examples of three elements of the cost of a product.
That is, we go from simple division of costs into constant variables to the elements of the cost of a product.
Next, we will calculate the cost of a product unit and show its application using the example of the standard cost system.
The cost of a product has three elements.
These are direct costs of materials, direct costs of labor and production overhead costs, which are also known as indirect costs.
What are direct material costs?
Direct material costs are the costs of materials used in the production of a product, which can be conveniently and economically traced to certain units of the product.
Examples. Iron ore used in the production of steel, sheet metal used in the creation of cars, sugar used in the production of sweets.
All these are direct material costs.
The more steel we produce, the more iron ore we require.
The same is true for cars.
We require more sheet metal.
We can also attribute these direct costs to each unit of the product.
For example, each new candy requires a certain amount of sugar that is put in this candy.
Direct labor costs are the costs of labor, with which a product should be made and which can be conveniently and economically traced to certain units of the product.
An example.
The salary of the operators of the machines and workers of the pipeline.
That is, every worker who makes a product spends labor, and the costs of his labor can be traced to each specific unit of this product.
Next, we will talk about production overhead costs.
Production overhead costs are related to production costs, which cannot be conveniently and economically traced to certain units of the product.
They are also called factory overhead costs or indirect production costs.
They include indirect material costs, nails, rivets, lubricants and small tools.
Indirect labor costs, labor for the maintenance of the machine and the inspection, design of projects, and the observation and processing of materials.
There are also other indirect production overhead costs.
These are construction material and technical support, taxes, insurance, amortization of the plant and equipment, rent, utility payments, and much more.
Production overhead costs are indirect costs distributed by the cost of the product, by the traditional or functional cost analysis method.
This method is also known as ABC, Activity Based Costing.
But in Russia it is called functional cost analysis.
So, how is the cost of a product calculated?
The cost of a product is calculated by the cost of production of one unit of the product, including direct material costs, direct labor costs, and production overhead costs.
These costs are accumulated as the product batch is produced.
They are calculated in one of two ways when the batch is finished.
They are calculated by dividing the total accumulated costs into the total number of units produced.
They are calculated by determining the cost per unit for each element of the product and by summing up the costs per unit.
The information on the cost per unit helps managers to set prices for products and calculate the total margin and net income.
The total margin is also called the total profit.
The cost per unit of a product can be calculated using the following methods.
The cost per unit is calculated by the actual costs, the cost per unit is calculated by the actual direct and indirect costs, and the cost per unit is calculated by the standard costs.
So, the method of calculating the cost per unit is based on the standard costs.
The cost per unit is calculated by the standard costs of direct materials, direct labor, and production overhead costs.
What is the difference between standard and standard?
In Russian, the word is used to describe standard costs, but in English, the word standard is translated as standard, which can be described as standard.
This method is useful when it is desirable to have information on the cost of a product before the accounting period begins.
The following goals are to control the costs for operational activities and price education for the offered product for the consumer.
The illustration of the method of calculating the cost per unit is based on the standard costs.
So, we have a chocolate company that places an order for the production of 2,000 chocolate bars for a new customer.
The accounting manager of the company estimated the following costs.
Direct materials, 2 rubles per piece, direct labor costs, 1.5 rubles per piece, production overhead costs, which are spent using the reference estimate of 60% of direct labor costs.
Let's calculate the cost per unit of the product for the order.
The reference estimate of production overhead costs is 90 kopecks per piece or 0.9 rubles per piece.
This is equal to 1.5 times the direct labor costs, which are 60%, because the condition says that 60% of direct labor costs.
Direct labor costs are called DL, which means direct labor.
Direct materials are called DM, that is, direct materials.
The reference estimate of production overhead costs is 1.5 times the direct labor costs, which are 60%.
1.5 times 60% is equal to 90 kopecks or 0.9 rubles.
Now we can add all three types of labor costs, 2, 1.5, 0.9, and we see that the cost of one chocolate bar will be 4.4 rubles, that is, 4 rubles and 40 kopecks.
Now we move on to the last issue of our discussion today.
These are the theoretical foundations of the Direct Cost system.
Direct costs are costs that can be conveniently and economically traced to the object of value.
For example, the cost of the flight to the air fleet, direct costs, crew salary, time spent and hourly salary are shown in the table of work time and payment notice.
Fuel costs.
Thus, we can say how many direct costs will be used for one flight to the air fleet.
We have already discussed this issue today, so here is a repetition of the material already discussed.
But we use this method to evaluate the work of the profit center.
What is a profit center?
In order to enhance and increase the efficiency of the work of production units in business that do not work directly on the market, three types of centers of responsibility are used, one of which is the profit center.
There is a cost center, there is a profit center, and there is also an investment center.
What is the difference between these three centers of responsibility?
The cost center is based on the accumulation of costs for this center.
It records how much is allowed for the work of this center, for the work of a business limited by the framework of this center.
This can be a business segment, a division, a separate production plant.
Since it does not work directly on the sale of finished products and on the trade, we cannot say how much it costs in market prices.
We can only control its costs.
Thus, this center has only a budget, but it does not have a profit.
Unlike the profit center, since it really works on the final consumer, it sells its products.
Therefore, it is called a profit center.
Its work is evaluated by comparing the results of the actual profit report with the planned profit report.
Accordingly, we can apply the direct costs method to evaluate the work of this profit center.
This is the direct costs method.
This is a method of preparing a report on the work of a profit center that classifies the managed costs of the manager as direct or permanent.
Instead of the traditional profit report, a profit report is prepared using the direct costs method.
It is also called a cost calculation with a full distribution of costs or absorption calculation.
The word absorption comes from the word absorb, that is, to absorb, to distribute.
This method is used for external accounting purposes.
It is similar to the marginal profit report, since it pursues the same goals.
It is useful because it focuses on changing the cost and contribution, or marginal profit, of the profit center to the operating income.
That is, if we previously considered the marginal profit formula applicable to one unit of the product,
now we can apply the same approach to the entire production or trading unit.
Direct costing is used to evaluate the work of a profit center.
The variable cost of the sold goods and the variable components of commercial and administrative expenses are subtracted from the sale to obtain the marginal profit for the profit center.
All the managed permanent costs are subtracted from the gross margin to determine the operating income.
It includes the permanent production costs and the permanent commercial costs.
When preparing a profit report in the traditional format, all production costs are related to the cost of the sold goods.
I want to remind you that the cost of the sold goods, which you probably studied in the main course of accounting, is the amount paid for the goods that were sold.
The cost of the sold goods is recognized at the time of the sale of the goods.
That is, we buy goods, store them, and after they are sold, the cost of the sold goods is part of the cost of the sale.
The cost of the sold goods is subtracted from the sale to obtain the gross margin.
Then, the variable permanent costs of the sale are subtracted from the gross margin to determine the operating income.
This is the structure of the profit report in the traditional format, which is known from the accounting course.
Now we will compare the profit report in the Direct Cost system and the profit report in the traditional format.
What is the similarity and the difference?
The profit report in the traditional format is the sale minus the cost of the sold goods equals the gross margin minus the period costs.
What are the period costs? These are commercial costs, administrative costs, operating expenses that were allowed in the specified period.
The difference between the gross margin and the period costs is the profit of the center.
Now let's see what the Direct Cost report looks like.
Sales minus all variable costs.
Please note that the cost of the sold goods is not included in the cost of the goods.
It does not include the variable costs that were in the commercial and administrative costs, which is a necessary part of any profit report.
We subtract all variable costs here.
And we get not a gross margin, but a marginal profit.
This is a marginal profit, a marginal contribution to the coverage of the constant costs.
And then we take not the period costs, but all the constant costs, that is, the investments that were made and which do not depend on how the volume of the produced or sold goods changes.
And so we get the profit of the profit center.
We see that the traditional profit report and the Direct Cost report differ.
How can this be agreed upon with the requirement for accounting?
It is very simple.
The traditional profit report is a part of the financial accounting.
It can be used as a tax accounting.
It can be used to disclose information for financial markets.
At the same time, the profit report on the Direct Cost system is a part of the administrative accounting.
It is a part of the administrative accounting.
And its purpose is to serve for the analysis and adoption of administrative decisions.
The Direct Cost profit report groups the costs according to whether they are variable or constant.
The traditional profit report groups the costs according to whether they are the costs of the goods sold or produced or the period costs.
Again, we see that there are different purposes of the report.
Now let's analyze what the accounting and administrative accounting can be used for.
We know that the administrative accounting pursues two main goals.
The main goal is to manage, that is, to make decisions aimed at the future and to control, which is aimed at the past.
The traditional profit report, being a financial report, being an accounting report, can also serve as the purpose of the administrative accounting,
where it controls how the costs were made in the past period.
How effectively the goods were bought, at the right price, corresponding to the level of sales,
what were the commercial administrative costs, that is, what were the costs of the period.
Thus, the business can be controlled based on the traditional profit report, which is what it exists for.
However, the Direct Cost profit report is designed and specifically designed to make administrative decisions.
This report serves as the basis for making decisions for the future operation of the company.
Now we will see how the difference between the Direct Cost profit report and the traditional profit report works,
and how the profit report works with the same data for the same company.
So, we see that the sales of this company are 25,000 conditional units,
which can be rubles, in this case, conditional units,
because they have nothing to do with real numbers.
This is an example. 25,000 is the sales, and this is the sales.
In both reports, the quantities are the same.
Next, we have the cost of the sold goods.
What is the difference between the cost of the sold goods?
We see the variable cost of the sold goods, 15,750, which is the value of the sold goods.
But in the traditional report, we see that the cost of the sold goods is 17,450, that is, more.
What is this?
This is the cost of the sold goods, which is the cost of the production of the goods, and the storage.
The cost of the production of the goods can include both variable and constant production costs.
The cost of the sold goods is the cost of the variable sold goods and the constant production costs.
Thus, the two quantities give 17,450.
When we subtract the cost of the sold goods from the volume of sales in the traditional profit report,
we get the volume margin, which is 7,550.
A lot of coefficients are based on the analysis of this factor.
Here, in the profit report, we see the variable commercial costs,
which also include the variable cost of the sold goods and the variable commercial costs.
After all, our goal is to group all the variable costs.
The difference between them will give the marginal profit.
The marginal profit will be equal to 6,000, and it differs from the value of the volume margin.
Next, we subtract the constant production costs from the direct cost profit report.
At the same time, in the traditional report, we start to subtract the variable commercial costs,
which have already been subtracted from the direct cost profit report.
Next, we subtract the constant commercial costs from the direct cost profit report,
after which we get the profit margin.
And in the same way, the constant commercial costs are subtracted from the traditional profit report.
Why are they subtracted here, despite the fact that they are constant?
Because here we are not interested in the constant or variable costs.
Here we are not interested in how much these costs depend on how our costs change
with the increase or change in the volume of the product that is produced or sold.
Therefore, the last step of the calculation is the same.
Thus, we can see that the profit margin of the profit center in both cases will be equal to 2,000,
that is, the same value.
But, I repeat, the traditional profit margin is oriented towards the purpose of control,
reporting, and taxation.
Taxation is calculated according to the existing methods of calculating the corresponding data.
At the same time, the direct cost profit report is intended for management analysis.
How is the assessment of the work of the profit center carried out using the direct costing method?
The profit center manager can measure and assess non-financial information.
It includes a report of the work performed, which changes depending on the type of center of responsibility.
Let us remind you that the center of responsibility is the profit center,
the cost center, and the investment center.
The center of profit, the center of costs, and the center of investment.
It contains a general theme.
It compares the actual results of the center's work with its planned figures.
If the center of profit or profit center aims to compare the planned profit with the actual profit,
the center of costs will compare the actual costs with the budgetary or planned costs.
The center of investment, in addition to the costs and profits,
will also compare the budgetary and capital investments.
That is, how the capital investment plan is implemented and how effective it is.
The report of the work performed of any of the centers of responsibility focuses on the differences,
because it is not important what was done and what was planned,
but what was planned and what was done differ.
Then these differences will be analyzed separately.
Only the points that the managers can manage will be included.
Those points that are outside the manager's control will not be included.
The Center of Profit and Capital Investment
So, we have studied how we need to make decisions
and how to apply the management accounting methods to make decisions.
We have discussed the general idea of what management analysis is used for.
We have studied the types of costs and costs.
We have divided the costs into direct and indirect costs.
We have studied the point of payback, the constant costs, the variable costs,
the marginal profit and the point of payback.
Then we have moved on to the planning of the assortment of products.
For this purpose, we also needed to introduce the concept of the marginal profit coefficient
and use the marginal profit coefficient in order to distribute the types of products
and plan the assortment using the point of payback and costs.
Then we have played with various approaches to price education.
What happens if we increase the price of a product?
How will our operational profit change?
What will happen if we decrease the price of a product?
After this, we have studied the distribution of costs
and the distribution of costs directly to the costs of labor, materials and overhead expenses.
Based on this, we have considered two methods.
We have considered the standard costing method
and the direct costing method, which is used to conduct management analysis
and to make decisions.
Thank you for your attention.